Feat: AWS Private link (#973)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/dedicated-cloud-gateways/aws-private-link.md

---
title: "AWS PrivateLink Peering"
content_type: reference
layout: reference
description: |
  Create a private connection between your AWS environment and {{site.konnect_short_name}} using AWS PrivateLink.
products:
  - gateway
works_on:
  - konnect
api_specs:
  - konnect/control-planes-config

related_resources:
  - text: Dedicated Cloud Gateways
    url: /dedicated-cloud-gateways/
  - text: AWS PrivateLink Interface Endpoints
    url: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html
  - text: Amazon VPC Documentation
    url: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/what-is-amazon-vpc.html
---

> You can establish a private connection between {{site.konnect_short_name}} and your AWS environment using AWS PrivateLink. This provides secure communication between your Data Plane and the Control Plane, reducing data transfer costs and ensuring compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can establish a private connection between {{site.konnect_short_name}} and your AWS environment using AWS PrivateLink. This provides secure communication between your Data Plane and the Control Plane, reducing data transfer costs and ensuring compliance.

You can configure this instead of AWS Transit Gateways to secure your connection.
```
I don't know if that last part is accurate, but from reading both, it seems like you configure one or the other but not both. And I wanted that to be explicit.

PrivateLink support is currently available in the following AWS regions:

* `eu-central-1`
* `us-east-2`
* `eu-west-1`
* `eu-west-2`
* `ap-southeast-2`

If your desired AWS region is not listed, contact [Kong Support](https://support.konghq.com/support/s/).

## AWS configuration for PrivateLink

> Before creating a PrivateLink connection, ensure that you have a VPC, subnets, and a security group configured in your AWS account. For guidance, refer to [Amazon VPC documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/what-is-amazon-vpc.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating a PrivateLink connection, ensure that you have a VPC, subnets, and a security group configured in your AWS account. For instructions, see the [Amazon VPC documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/what-is-amazon-vpc.html).
```

> To configure PrivateLink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

1. Navigate to **VPC > Endpoints** in the AWS Console.
1. Select **Create Endpoint**.
1. Choose the service category **Endpoint services that use Network Load Balancers and Gateway Load Balancers**.
1. Enter a name tag for the endpoint (e.g., `konnect-us-geo`) indicating the {{site.konnect_short_name}} geo.

> 1. Locate the appropriate PrivateLink service name from the tables below based on your AWS region and {{site.konnect_short_name}} geo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Locate the appropriate PrivateLink [service name from the tables](#regional-privatelink-service-names) in the following section based on your AWS region and {{site.konnect_short_name}} geo.
```

> 1. Select your VPC, subnets, and security group for the endpoint. Ensure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select your VPC, subnets, and security group for the endpoint. Ensure the following settings are configured:
```

   * The security group allows inbound TCP traffic on port 443.
   * Private DNS is enabled in the additional settings.

> 1. Create the endpoint and wait until the status is **available**. We recommend waiting 10 minutes before using the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the endpoint and wait until the status is available. We recommend waiting 10 minutes before using the endpoint.
```

> 1. After your PrivateLink endpoint is available, update your Data Plane configuration to connect to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Control Plane using the private DNS name for your region.
> 
> Example `kong.conf` for the US region:
> 
> ```sh
> cluster_control_plane = us.svc.konghq.com/cp/{cluster_prefix}
> cluster_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
> cluster_telemetry_endpoint = us.svc.konghq.com:443/tp/{cluster_prefix}
> cluster_telemetry_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After your PrivateLink endpoint is available, update your Data Plane configuration in the [`kong.conf` file](/gateway/manage-kong-conf/) to connect to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Control Plane using the private DNS name for your region.

   Here's an example `kong.conf` configuration for the US region:

   ```sh
   cluster_control_plane = us.svc.konghq.com/cp/{cluster_prefix}
   cluster_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
   cluster_telemetry_endpoint = us.svc.konghq.com:443/tp/{cluster_prefix}
   cluster_telemetry_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
   ```

```

Reviewer: I nested the example since I think it applies to just the last step. I also specified that the DP config is in kong.conf just so users know. Or I think that's correct in this case.

I think it's missing a code block three backticks at the end since the GH suggestions doesn't like extra backticks in a suggestion.

1. Navigate to **VPC > Endpoints** in the AWS Console.
1. Select **Create Endpoint**.
1. Choose the service category **Endpoint services that use Network Load Balancers and Gateway Load Balancers**.
1. Enter a name tag for the endpoint (e.g., `konnect-us-geo`) indicating the {{site.konnect_short_name}} geo.
1. Locate the appropriate PrivateLink [service name from the tables](#regional-privatelink-service-names) in the following section based on your AWS region and {{site.konnect_short_name}} geo.
1. Select your VPC, subnets, and security group for the endpoint. Ensure the following settings are configured:
   * The security group allows inbound TCP traffic on port 443.
   * Private DNS is enabled in the additional settings.
1. Create the endpoint and wait until the status is available. We recommend waiting 10 minutes before using the endpoint.
1. After your PrivateLink endpoint is available, update your Data Plane configuration in the [`kong.conf` file](/gateway/manage-kong-conf/) to connect to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Control Plane using the private DNS name for your region.

   Here's an example `kong.conf` configuration for the US region:

> 
>    ```sh
>    cluster_control_plane = us.svc.konghq.com/cp/{cluster_prefix}
>    cluster_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
>    cluster_telemetry_endpoint = us.svc.konghq.com:443/tp/{cluster_prefix}
>    cluster_telemetry_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
>    ```

Author: ````suggestion

   ```sh
   cluster_control_plane = us.svc.konghq.com/cp/{cluster_prefix}
   cluster_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
   cluster_telemetry_endpoint = us.svc.konghq.com:443/tp/{cluster_prefix}
   cluster_telemetry_server_name = us.svc.konghq.com
   ```
````
